Jakarta - 							Percakapan Johannes Marliem (bos PT Biomorf Lone Indonesia dan PT Biomorf Mauritius) dengan anggota FBI di Los Angeles, Amerika Serikat (AS), ditampilkan di sidang Setya Novanto.
Marliem menyebut ada permintaan diskon 50 persen dari chip untuk per keping e-KTP.
Menurut jaksa KPK, percakapan itu terjadi pada Agustus 2017.
Andi Agustinus alias Andi Narogong juga disebut dalam percakapan itu.
"Pertemuan saksi dan Novanto, pertemuan di pagi hari, disebutkan permintaan diskon 50 persen, itu permintaan siapa?" tanya jaksa kepada Andi dalam sidang terdakwa Novanto di Pengadilan Tipikor Jakarta, Jalan Bungur Besar Raya, Jakarta Pusat, Senin (22/1/2018).
Selain itu, jaksa menanyakan pembahasan lain tentang jatah kartu.
Menurut Andi, hal itu tidak ada.
"Pembicaraan makan pagi juga bicarakan jatah kartu?" tanya jaksa.
"Tidak Pak," jawab Andi.
Percakapan antara Johannes Marliem dan FBI yang ditampilkan jaksa.
(Faiq Hidayat/detikcom)Berikut ini percakapan Johanes Marliem dengan anggota FBI pada Agustus 2017 di AS:Male : Five thousand rupiahs per card? And the discount associate with the card.
Do they did discuss of it (suara tidak jelas) the per card price of the ektp card ? No? Do the discuss with you? Marliem : Ok Male : Okay, so could you listen this conversation we are asking you all about itMarliem : ClearlyMale : Ok.
.
the Novanto this is on Novanto's house for breakfast with mr Agustinus so what is the purpose of you being there? Marliem : To convince Novanto that our price oa.
Ot that cheap meaning that because i did know Novanto suspects that this is gonna be refuse my simulation like fifty percent Male : So you try to convince the margin wasn't that big? Marliem : Is not that big and this is gonna do a lot of work a lot of things its about theMale : So what is,,Novanto have to do eorh the contract? Marliem : Has nothing to do with the contract Male : I mean does he approve it is that what you to convince on that there wasn't a lot of marginMarliem : So this is between him and Andi but at the time this only us is the one only L1 make it to the final and mega guna.
So in away they don't have any other choice otherwise it's gonna be recover againMale : Or mr Novanto in a position to approve or disapprove the winner? So why ,,, what difference make it? Why there is a conversation itMarliem : I think is form of respect number one.
